In this blog, I will explain the required quantum computing concepts that are sufficient to be able to
fairly understand the basics of quantum computing and to begin the mimiQ source code study. All in a very minimalist way.

Let's start from scratch. 
If a particle is so small, like an electron or photon, It exhibits what are called quantum phenomena. 
Hence, they are quantum particles.

What phenomena ? 

Firstly, all quantum particles can be associated with its "wave function". Let's just say that it tells us about the properties 
of the wave. The main property that we can be concerned with is the "probability of position". 
Before explaining further, 

Did you notice that I used both the terms - wave and particle in the above sentences while referring to the same entity?
Yes. It might sound contradictory but it's called 'wave-particle' duality. It means the entity - electron or photon, 
it behaves like a wave or a particle both, but only one behavior at a time, it's like a human having mood swings. 
Both the behaviors are well encoded in the wave function. 

What triggers the change in behavior? Us looking at them.
Yes, you heard it right. 

When it is in wave form, and we look at them, it's behavior changes to that of particle. 

Now, the main difference in the behavior of the two is straightforward, the wave version is associated to wavelength, 
and the particle version is to position.

And what that means? When the entity is in wave form - it is not just that the motion is in wave-like.
The most important point in this phase is that - the physical position of the entity is "spread" throughout like a "wave" 
And what that means is that, the position is not a dot, not a point, but a spatial presence. A "wave" .

And do you remember me saying that this 'wave' behavior changes when we look at it ?
Yes. When we look at it -- or more fancy way, when we try to observe it, the act of observing is 'measurement' 

When we do it, it instantly shifts to particle phase. 
This transition is technically called "wave function collapse" 

Now it will become a particle, BUT BUT 
the particle as we speak, does not have a spatial presence, its more like a point. 

Where is the point originated from the wave ?

This is a very important point now - The particle version can come from "any" point in the wave at "random" 
where each point has a different probability. How do we know the probability ? 
We will now get back to when I mentioned...

"probability of position" 
A main property of wave function as we discussed earlier. 
A wave function gives us enough data where it gives probabilities of the different "particle states" when we "measure/observe" 

The double-slit experiment is the formal experiment that demonstrates what I explain above. 
I will briefly explain it. 

let a source eject a "quantum particle" one by one in one direction, it will be in wave form.  
Let there be an intermediate medium - an opaque barrier/wall, with 2 tiny slits ( thin hole-like exits )

Now each hole will act as a source of the waves,
as you might know - when 2 waves intersect - they can cause the waves to either increase their wave size ( amplitude ) or decrease.
This is what will create an "interference pattern"

they will hit a screen soon after.
When they hit, a measurement happens. The hitting is a measurement because the screen 'marks' the instance where the entity made 
contact with the screen. As we know now, the mark on the screen is dependant on the probabilities from wave function. 

So after we eject multiple particles like this, On screen we see the interference pattern in form of markings.
a place dark, a place thin, again a place dark, like black and white stripes.
The black stripes indicate that the wave function collapsed at that point in that stripe.
the stripes would be intense around the center and light far from centre. 
This is due to the fact that probabilities are high around the centre region. 

Now, we will do one modification to the apparatus.
in the intermediate medium, we will observe the entity while it is in the medium, 
guess what will happen ?

the wave function will collapse midway and will emerge as particle versions from the medium to the screen.
2 slits- 2 exits - only 2 stripes. 

What do we conclude from this :
-> measurement collapses wave function of a quantum particle

If this one line makes sense to you, you are free to go to next blog 
