In the last 2 blogs, we worked on understanding 2 statements
-> measurement collapses wave function of a quantum particle
-> superposition of a quantum particle refers to the
   ability of the particle to be able to be measured/collapsed differently ( different points in the curvy line) 
   based on the probabilities that can be calculated from the particle's wavefunction

Now we need to stop quantum theory for a while, lets come back to logic for a while.
Any number in computing is stored as zeroes and ones. 
If I have to be more explicit, semiconductors with electricity simulate zeroes and ones, 
but in the end, everything is a function between zeroes and ones in today's society.
the lowest level of computing comes from LOGIC GATES 
0 AND 0 = 0  ; 0 OR  0 = 0 ; 0 XOR 0 = 1  
0 AND 1 = 0  ; 0 XOR 1 = 1 ; O OR  1 = 1 
1 AND 1 = 1  ; 1 XOR 1 = 0 ; 1 OR  1 = 1

But there are limitations with classical computing
(classical computing refers to computing as discussed above - zeroes and ones by semiconductors )
Why am I talking like there is other way of computing ?
Is there other ways ? 

Well some people in the past discovered that superposition can be used in computation.
Well, that's some quantum computing xD.

Just like how an ejected particle as wave has superposition as we discussed in previous blog,

a particle also exhibits superposition in one more aspect - SPIN. 
an electron can be in a superposition of spin-up and spin-down. 
A photon can be in a superposition of vertical vibration or horizontal vibration. 
    ( geeks would argue that its not vertical or horizontal vibration, but its polarization and it can be multiple more directions
      but hey, what I said is much better is not wrong, a photon can be in such superposition )
A tiny atom/ion can be in a superposition of high state or low state. 

eg. an electron spins... but until you measure, you can't tell which way it does.
    But we can predict using the electron's wavefunction.
    Yes. Electron is a quantum particle so we associate it with a wavefunction, 
    and that tells us the probabilities of each spin when measured.

In a nutshell, every entity discussed above can be in a superposition of 2 opposite "states" 
    be it up/down, vertical/horizontal , high/low 
    I see as 0/1 

And that's where we bring them to computation world.
Bye bye classical computing.
Welcome to Quantum computing.